# Structuring Word Documents

The use of headings and subheadings in any document often reflects a hierarchy of information.
## HTML Describes the Structure of Pages

---
- **Example:**

```html
<html>
<body>
		 <h1>This is the Main Heading</h1>
		 <p>This text might be an introduction to the rest of
			 the page. And if the page is a long one it might
			 be split up into several sub-headings.</p>
		 <h2>This is a Sub-Heading</h2>
		 <p>Many long articles have sub-headings so to help
			 you follow the structure of what is being written.
			 There may even be sub-sub-headings (or lower-level
			 headings).</p>
		 <h2>Another Sub-Heading</h2>
		 <p>Here you can see another sub-heading.</p>
</body>
</html>

```

---
- **Result:**

<html>
<body>
		 <h1>This is the Main Heading</h1>
		 <p>This text might be an introduction to the rest of
			 The page. And if the page is a long one it might
			 Be split up into several sub-headings.</p>
		 <h2>This is a Sub-Heading</h2>
		 <p>Many long articles have sub-headings so to help
			 You follow the structure of what is being written.
			 There may even be sub-sub-headings (or lower-level
			 Headings).</p>
		 <h2>Another Sub-Heading</h2>
		 <p>Here you can see another sub-heading.</p>
</body>
</html>

---

The HTML code is made up of characters that live inside angled brackets - these are called ***HTML elements***.

***Elements are usually made up of two tags***: an opening tag and a closing tag. (The closing tag has an extra forward slash in it.)

Each HTML element tells the browser something about the information that sits between its opening and closing tags.

- **HTML uses Elements to describe the structure of pages.**
- **Attributes tell us more about elements**
	- Attributes provide additional information about the contents of an element. They appear on the opening tag of the element and are made up of two parts: a ***name*** and a ***value***, separated by an equals sign.

---
- **Example:**

```html
<p lang="en-us">Paragraph in English</p>
```

---
- **Result:**

<p lang="en-us">Paragraph in English</p>

---

The attribute ***name*** indicates what kind of extra information you are supplying about the element's content. It should be written in lowercase.

The ***value*** is the information or setting for the attribute. It should be placed in double quotes.

Different attributes can have different values.

---
