# 4. Form Structure

**`<form>`**
- Form controls live inside a **`<form>`** element. This element should always carry the **action** attribute and will usually have **a** and **id** attribute too.

**`action`**
- Every **`<form>`** element requires an action attribute. Its value is the URL for the page on the
server that will receive the information in the form when it is submitted.

**`method`**
Forms can be sent using one of two methods: **`get`** or **`post`**.

With the **`get`** method, the values from the form are added to the end of the URL speciﬁed in the **action** attribute. The **`get`** method is ideal for:
- short forms (such as search boxes)
- when you are just retrieving data from the web server (not sending information that should be added to or deleted from a database)

---
- *Example:*
```html
<form action="http:/www.example.com/subscribe.php" method="get">
<p>  This is where the form control will apear. </p>
</form>
```
---
- *Result:*
<form action="http:/www.example.com/subscribe.php" method="get">
<p>  This is where the form control will apear. </p>
</form>

---
With the **`post`** method the values are sent in what are known as HTTP headers. As a rule of thumb you should use the **`post`** method if your form:
- allows users to upload a ﬁle
- is very long
- contains sensitive data (e.g. passwords)
- adds information to, or deletes information from, a database
- If the method attribute is not used, the form data will be sent using the **`get`** method.

**`id`**
- We look at the **`id`** attribute, but the value is used to identify the form distinctly from other elements on the page (and is often used by scripts - such as those that check you have entered information into ﬁelds that require values).

---
