# HTML5 - Adding HTML5 Audio To Your Pages

**`<audio>`**
- HTML5 introduced the **`<audio>`** element to include audio files in your pages. As with HTML5 video, browsers expect different formats for the audio.
- The **`<audio>`** element has a number of attributes which allow you to control audio playback:

**`src`**
- This attribute specifies the path to the audio file.

**`controls`**
- This attribute indicates whether the player should display controls. If you do not use this attribute, no controls will be shown by default. You can also specify your own controls using JavaScript.

**`autoplay`**
- The presence of this attribute indicates that the audio should start playing automatically. (It is considered better practice to let visitors choose to play audio.)

**`preload`**
- This attribute indicates what the browser should do if the player is not set to autoplay. It can have the same values we saw for the **`<video>`** element.

**`loop`**
- This attribute specifies that the audio track should play again once it has finished.

---
- *Example:*
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
		 <title>Adding HTML5 Audio</title>
</head>
<body>
		 <audio src="audio/test-audio.ogg"
			 controls autoplay>
			 <p>This browser does not support our audio
			 format.</p>
		 </audio>
</body>
</html>
```

---
- *Result:*

<html>
<head>
		 <title>Adding HTML5 Audio</title>
</head>
<body>
		 <audio src="Ω Assets/Attachments/HTML & CSS/audio/test-audio.ogg"
			 controls autoplay>
			 <p>This browser does not support our audio
			 format.</p>
		 </audio>
</body>
</html>

- This example only works in browsers that support the Ogg Vorbis audio format (Firefox, Chrome, and Opera). For it to work in Safari 5 and IE 9, the audio would need to be in MP3 format (or use the **`<source>`** element covered on the next page to offer different formats).

---
