# Adding A Flash Movie To Your Web Page

- The most popular way of adding Flash into a web page is using JavaScript. There are several scripts that allow you to do this without an in-depth understanding of the JavaScript language.
- The script we will be looking at here is called ***SWFObject***. You can obtain a copy of it for free from Google, and you can see how we use it on the next page.
- One advantage to using this technique is that it allows browsers to show alternative content for users whose browsers are not capable of showing Flash.
- This technique uses a **`<div>`** element to create a space where the Flash movie should sit. The **`<div>`** element has an id attribute whose value is used by the ***SWFObject*** script. In the example, the value of the id attribute is bird.
- Inside the **`<div>`** element you can place the alternative content for users who are not able to play Flash.

- The ***SWFObject*** script will check to see if the user's browser can play the Flash movie. If it can, the script will replace the content of the **`<div>`** with the **`.swf`** file.
- For users who cannot see the Flash movie, you could show a still from the movie instead. You might also like to consider using a text description of the Flash file.
- If you use a text description as alternative content, then you can achieve two further benefits:
	1. The text can be accessed by those with visual and/or physical impairments who are not able to interact with the Flash file.
	2. The text can be indexed by search engines (which are not as effective at indexing SWF files), increasing the chance that your content will be found.

- In this example, the SWFObject script is hosted on Google's servers. We include the script in this web page using the first of the two **`<script>`** elements.
- The type attribute is used on the **`<script>`** element to indicate that the script inside is written in JavaScript. The src attribute tells the browser where to find the script.
- The second **`<script>`** element is used to tell the browser about the Flash movie, as well as which element it should replace. This element is actually telling the SWFObject script five pieces of information, which are in the brackets:
	1. The location of the .swf file: **`flash/bird.swf`**
	2. The element that the Flash movie should replace, specified by the value of the id attribute on the **`<div>`** element: bird
	3. The width of the Flash movie: 400 px
	4. The height of the Flash movie: 300 px
	5. The minimum version of the Flash player needed to view the movie: Flash Player 8
---

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
		 <title>Adding a Flash Movie</title>
		 <script type="text/javascript"
			 src="http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/
			 swfobject/2.2/swfobject.js"></script>
		 <script type="text/javascript">
			 swfobject.embedSWF("flash/bird.swf",
			 "bird", "400", "300", "8.0.0");</script>
</head>
<body>
		 <div id="bird"><p>An animation of a bird taking
			 a shower</p></div>
</body>
</html>
```

---
