# Understanding Video Formats and Players

- To add video to your site, there are two key issues to understand: file formats and video players/plugins.
### Formats

- Movies are available in many formats (BluRay, DVD, VHS, to name a few). 
- Online, there are even more video formats (including AVI, Flash Video, H264, MPEG, Ogg Theora, QuickTime, WebM, and Windows Media).
- Browsers differ in what video formats they do and don't support. In order for users to view your video online, you may need to convert it to another format.
- The process of converting a video into another format is sometimes referred to as "***encoding***" the video.
- There are several apps available on the web that enable you to encode videos (such as www.mirovideoconverter.com).
### Players / plugins

- Browsers were initially designed to show text and images only. For this reason, browsers built prior to 2010 generally required another program called a player or plugin to to be installed in order to play video content. These players and plugins only supported certain video formats.
- Recently browsers have evolved to support the HTML5 **`<video>`** tag (which renders players and plugins obsolete).
- Unfortunately, however, you cannot rely on every visitor to your website having a recent browser that supports this new HTML5 element and the browsers that do recognize the **`<video>`** element require the video to be encoded in different formats.
### Approach

- The easiest way to add video to your site is to use a hosted service such as YouTube or Vimeo.
- However, there are some cases where using these services is not appropriate and you will want to host the video on your own site.
- At the time of writing, to ensure most people can play your video content, it is considered best practice to use the HTML5 **`<video>`** element for browsers that support it, and also Flash video for those that do not.This means you would need to upload any videos you want to show in at least two different formats: WebM and MP4.

---
