# Using Hosted Video Services

- The easiest way to add a video to your site is to upload the video to a site like YouTube or Vimeo and use the features provided on their site to embed the video in your page.
### Advantages

- Hosted video sites (such as YouTube) provide players that work with the majority of web browsers. You do not need to worry about encoding your video since these sites allow you to upload your content in a range of formats. Once uploaded, they automatically convert your video into the various formats required by different browsers.
- Web hosting companies often charge extra if you use a lot of bandwidth, and video files can be quite large. Therefore, it can cost you extra to host the videos on your own site. If your video is hosted on a site like YouTube or Vimeo, however, you do not need to pay for the bandwidth.
### Disadvantages

- Your video will be available on the site of the hosted service, so if you want the content to be exclusively available on your site (and not visible on other sites), you need to host the video on your own server and add your own player into the page.
- Some services will limit what your video is allowed to include. For example, most prohibit the use of advertising within the video you upload (which prevents you from monetizing that content).
- Some hosted services will play their own adverts before your video will begin, or even overlay them over the screen as your video is playing. The quality of video on some hosted services can also be limited.
### The Alternative

- If you want to host video on your own site - rather than a hosted service - a lot more work is involved in setting up your site to play the video.
- We will be looking at two different ways that you can host your own videos: using both Flash Video and the HTML5 **`<video>`** element.
- In order to ensure that the maximum number of visitors to your site can see the video, you will need to use a combination of both of these techniques.

---
